ZOLA
by Mark Steere
INTRODUCTION
Zola is a two player game played on a 6x6 (or 8x8...) checkerboard initially filled with
a checkered pattern of red and blue checkers as shown in Figure 1.
The two players, Red and Blue, take turns moving their own checkers, one checker per
turn, starting with Red.  If a player has a move available, he must make one.  If he has 
no moves available, he must sit the game out and wait until he does have a move 
available.  At least one of the two players will always have a move available.
Draws cannot occur in Zola.  Mark Steere designed Zola in February, 2021.
MOVE TYPES
There are two types of moves in Zola: non-capturing and capturing.
NON-CAPTURING MOVES
The non-capturing move is a king-like move to an adjacent (horizontally, vertically, or
diagonally), unoccupied square.  A non-capturing move must increase the straight line
distance to the center point of the board*.  See Figure 2.
CAPTURING MOVES
The capturing move is a queen-like move along a straight (horizontal, vertical or
diagonal) sequence of zero or more unoccupied squares terminating with an enemy
occupied square.  The enemy checker is removed and replaced with the capturing
checker.  A capturing move must maintain or decrease the straight line distance to the
center point of the board.  See Figure 3.
OBJECT OF THE GAME
To win you must capture all enemy checkers.
AUTHOR’S NOTE
Feel free to publish this rule sheet and to program the game of Zola.  No licensing fee 
or royalties are expected.  However, please don’t change the name or the rules, and 
please attribute the game to me, Mark Steere.  My other games can be found at 
marksteeregames.com.
Figure 1 - Initial Setup.
Figure 2 - Non-Capturing.
Red has only three 
available moves.  Each
move is non-capturing
and moves his checker to 
an adjacent square which
is further from the center
of the board.
Blue has only two 
available moves.  Both
moves are capturing.  
Move A moves his 
checker to a square 
equally distant from the
center of the board.  
Move B moves his 
checker to a square 
closer to the center.
Copyright (c) 2021 by Mark Steere
Level 3
Level 2
Level 1
Level 6
Level 5
Level 4
*DISTANCE FROM CENTER
There are 6 “levels” of distance from center.  All of the 
highlighted squares within each level are equally distant from
the center.
Example 1: You can make a non-capturing, king’s move from 
a square in level 2 to an unoccupied square in level 3, 4, or 5.
Example 2: You can make a capturing queen’s move from a
square in level 4 to another square in level 4 (assuming a
straight path from one square to the other that isn’t blocked 
by intervening checkers).
Example 3: You can make a capturing queen’s move from 
level 6 to level 1. 
Figure 3 - Capturing.
A
B
